In \sref{modeling}, we formalized the uncertainty affecting electronic systems
and discussed several aspects of such systems along with metrics $\g$, which the
designer is interested in evaluating. In \sref{interpolation}, we obtained an
efficient interpolation algorithm for approximating hypothetical
multidimensional functions $\f$. We shall now amalgamate the ideas developed in
the aforementioned two sections.

Given an electronic system dependent on a number of uncertain parameters $\vu:
\outcomes \to \real^\nu$, the goal is to analyze a metric $\g$ representing a
certain aspect of the system. For instance, $\vu$ can correspond to the
execution times of the tasks, and $\g$ can correspond the total energy consumed
by the processing elements, as we exemplify in \sref{time} and \sref{power}. The
goal is attained as follows; recall \fref{example}.

1) The parametrization of $\g$ is changed from $\vu$ to \rvs\ $\vz: \outcomes
\to [0, 1]^\nz$ via a suitable transformation $\transformation$; this stage is
described in \sref{parameters}. 2) An interpolant of the resulting composition
$\g \circ \transformation$ is constructed by treating the composition as a
deterministic function $\f$ of $\vz$; this stage is detailed in
\sref{interpolation}. 3) An estimation of the probability distribution of $\g$
is undertaken in the usual sampling-based manner but relying solely on the
constructed interpolant; $\g$ is no longer involved. This last stage boils down
to drawing independent samples from $\distribution_\vz$ and evaluating the
interpolant $\approximation{\l}(\f) \equiv \approximation{\l}(\g \circ
\transformation)$ at those points. Having collected samples of $\g$, other
statistics about $\g$, such as probabilities of particular events, can be
straightforwardly estimated. We do not discuss this estimation stage any further
as it is standard.

There are two aspects concerning the usage of the proposed framework that we
would like to cover in what follows.

\subsection{Expectation and Variance} \slab{moments}
\input{include/analysis/moments}

\subsection{Multiple Outputs}
\input{include/analysis/outputs}

To summarize, once an interpolant of $\g$ has been constructed, the distribution
of $\g$ is estimated using versatile sampling methods applied to the
interpolant. The framework extends naturally to metrics with multiple outputs,
and it provides analytical formulae for expectations and variances.

Let us remind that the evaluation of $\g$ is an extensive operation. Our
technique is designed to keep this expense as low as possible by choosing the
evaluation points adaptively, which is unlike traditional sampling methods.
Moreover, in contrast to \up{PC} expansions and similar techniques, the proposed
framework is well suited for the nonsmooth response surfaces.
