In this section, we present an interpolation algorithm that forms the core of
the proposed framework for probabilistic analysis of multiprocessor systems. The
algorithm is based on the work in \cite{klimke2006} and \cite{ma2009}, and it
features a sparse-grid structure, hierarchical construction, and local
adaptivity. The sparse-grid structure is to address the curse of dimensionality
and, thereby, tackle high-dimensional problems; the hierarchical construction is
to have a gradual refinement of approximation with a natural error control; and
the local adaptivity is to make the refinement fine-grained and, hence, gain
further efficiency.

Let $\f \in \continuous([0, 1]^\nin)$ be a function that we would like to
approximate; hereafter, $\continuous([0, 1]^\nin)$ denotes the space of
continuous functions in the unit hypercube $[0, 1]^\nin$. As noted earlier, the
domain $[0, 1]^\nin$ is merely standardization rather than a restriction. The
function is assumed to be computationally intensive and impractical for
extensive evaluation, which might be required for an accurate probabilistic
analysis of $\f$. The concise notation $\f$ might be hiding, for instance, a
full-system simulation, including scheduling and power-temperature analysis,
which is the case in our settings.

In order to make the problem computationally tractable, a light representation
of $\f$ is constructed and studied instead of $\f$. The surrogate is based on
interpolation: $\f$ is evaluated at a small number of points or nodes, and any
other values of $\f$ are reconstructed on demand using a set of basis functions
mediating between the obtained values of $\f$.

In what follows, we shall gradually construct an efficient interpolant for $\f$.
Efficiency, in this context, refers to the number of nodes required to achieve a
certain accuracy level.

\subsection{Tensor Product} \slab{tensor-product}
\input{include/interpolation/tensor-product}

\subsection{Smolyak Algorithm} \slab{smolyak-algorithm}
\input{include/interpolation/smolyak-algorithm}

\subsection{Adaptivity} \slab{adaptivity}
\input{include/interpolation/adaptivity}

\subsection{Collocation Nodes} \slab{collocation-nodes}
\input{include/interpolation/collocation-nodes}

\subsection{Basis Functions} \slab{basis-functions}
\input{include/interpolation/basis-functions}

\subsection{Implementation}
\input{include/interpolation/implementation}
