Our work brings the following major contribution: We develop a framework for
probabilistic analysis of electronic systems that is straightforward to use and
is applicable to a wide range of uncertainty-quantification problems.

The usage of the framework is streamlined because it has the same low entrance
requirements as sampling techniques: one only has to be able to evaluate the
quantity of interest given a set of deterministic parameters. Moreover, the
framework can be utilized in scenarios with limited knowledge about the joint
probability distribution of the uncertain parameters, which are common in
practice (to be elaborated on in \sref{parameters}).

The scope of the framework is wide because the framework has a powerful
approximation engine. Concretely, we makes use of adaptive hierarchical
interpolation on sparse grids \cite{jakeman2012, klimke2006, ma2009}, which
enables us to tackle diverse electronic-system-design problems while keeping the
concomitant costs low. In particular, the framework is capable of efficiently
handling nonsmooth responses, which is important in the context of electronic
systems due to their nature, as motivated in \sref{introduction}.

In addition to the aforementioned contribution, we open-source our
implementation \cite{sources}. The code base also includes the whole
experimental setup described in \sref{experimentation}. The implementation is
broken down into multiple standalone libraries, which makes it well disposed to
cherry-picked reusage.

Lastly, let us note that, in this paper, we are mainly oriented toward digital
sources of uncertainty introduced earlier, and our examples and experiments are
tailored accordingly. However, the framework is expected to perform well when
modeling other uncertainties such as those due to process variation.
