Consider a multiprocessor system composed of two major components: a platform
and an application. The platform consists of a set of heterogeneous processing
elements $\procs = \{ 1, \dots, \np \}$ and is equipped with a thermal package.
The application is given as a set of tasks $\tasks = \{ 1, \dots, \nt \}$. In
what follows, the system will be denoted by $(\procs, \tasks)$.

The designer is assumed to be interested in studying a quantity $\g$ that
characterizes the system described above. The examples include the end-to-end
delay, average power, total energy, maximal temperature, and power and
temperature profiles (data matrices representing discrete snapshots of the
system's dynamics). The quantity $\g$, referred to as the quantity of interest,
depends on a set of parameters that are uncertain at the design stage. In this
work, we focus on those parameters that affect the timing characteristics of the
system such as the execution times of the tasks. The uncertain parameters are
modeled as a random vector $\vu = (\u_i)_{i = 1}^\nu$ with distribution
$\distribution_\vu$. It is important to note that the dependency of $\g$ on
$\vu$, written as $\g(\vu)$, inevitably implies that $\g$ is random for the
designer; however, for a given $\vu$, $\g$ is assumed to be purely
deterministic. Then, the characterization of $\g$ refers to the estimation of
the probability distribution of $\g$, which implicitly delivers all other
quantities such as probabilities, expectations, and variances.

Lastly, for a given $\vu$, the evaluation of $\g$ is assumed to be doable but
expensive (computationally or otherwise). If it was cheap, one could collect
thousands of independent samples of $\g$ and compute all the needed statistics
about $\g$ without involving any framework like the one presented in this paper.

We pursue the following major objectives:
\begin{itemize}

\item \textbf{Objective~1.} Develop a framework for probabilistic analysis of
  the quantity of interest $\g$ characterizing the system $(\procs, \tasks)$
  such that the uncertainty originating from the parameters $\vu$ is taken into
  consideration.

\end{itemize}
