Based on the specification of the platform at hand, an equivalent thermal
\abbr{RC} circuit is constructed \cite{skadron2004}. The circuit comprises $\nn$
thermal nodes, and its structure depends on the intended level of granularity,
which impacts the resulting accuracy. For clarity, we assume that each
processing element is mapped onto one corresponding node, and the thermal
package is represented as a set of additional nodes.

The thermal dynamics of the system are modeled using the following system of
differential-algebraic equations \cite{ukhov2012, ukhov2014}:
\begin{subnumcases}{\elab{thermal-system}}
  \mC \frac{d\vs(\t)}{d\t} + \mG \vs(\t) = \mM \vp(\t) \elab{thermal-system-ode} \\
  \vq(\t) = \mM^T \vs(\t) + \vq_\ambient
\end{subnumcases}
The coefficients $\mC \in \real^{\nn \times \nn}$ and $\mG \in \real^{\nn \times
\nn}$ are a diagonal matrix of thermal capacitance and a symmetric,
positive-definite matrix of thermal conductance, respectively. The vectors
$\vp(\t) \in \real^\np$, $\vq(\t) \in \real^\np$, and $\vs(\t) \in \real^\nn$
are the power consumption, temperature, and internal state of the system at time
$\t$, respectively; all three are random due to the dependency on $\vu$. The
vector $\vq_\ambient \in \real^\np$ contains the ambient temperature. The matrix
$\mM \in \real^{\nn \times \np}$ is a mapping that distributes the power
dissipation of the processing elements across the thermal nodes; without loss of
generality, $\mM$ is a rectangular diagonal matrix whose diagonal elements are
equal to unity.

The vector $\vp(\t) = (p_i(\t))_{i = 1}^{\np}$ in \eref{thermal-system-ode}
should not be confused with the vector $\vp = (p_i)_{i = 1}^{\nt}$ introduced in
\sref{problem-formulation}. The two are related as follows:
\[
  p_i(\t) = \sum_{j = 1}^{\nt} \delta_{i\,m_j} \: \one_{[\b_j, \b_j + \d_j)}(\t) \: p_j,
\]
for $i = 1, 2, \dots, \np$, where $\delta_{ij}$ is the Kronecker delta and
$\one_A(x)$ is the indicator function of a set $A$. In words, the above equation
yields the power consumption of the task that is running on the $i$th processing
element at time $\t$, if any.
